.TH STYX 1 "July 2026" "styx 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
styx \- unified dev environment manager for portfolio companies

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B styx
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
[\fICOMMAND\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Styx is a unified dev environment manager for Modo Ventures and portfolio companies.

One TOML config file, one lock file, identical environments everywhere—no Nix language, no runtime AI dependency.

Configuration is hierarchical: global config at ~/.local/share/styx/styx.toml can be overridden by project-local .styx/styx.toml files. Child configs override parent configs for specific tools while inheriting unspecified tools.

.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B styx install [tools...]
Install tools from styx.toml configuration. Resolves tool specs from registry, downloads binaries, verifies checksums, extracts to content-addressable storage, and creates symlinks.

.TP
.B styx lock
Generate or update styx.lock from current configuration and registry. The lock file enables reproducible installs across machines via 'styx sync'.

.TP
.B styx sync [tools...]
Install tools from styx.lock (reproducible install). Installs tools on a fresh machine or CI environment with exact versions and checksums from lock file.

.TP
.B styx verify [tools...]
Verify that installed tools match checksums recorded in styx.lock. Useful for detecting corrupted downloads or tampered binaries.

.TP
.B styx update [tool@version...]
Update one or more tools to a specific version. Updates the local config (.styx/styx.toml) with new versions, then regenerates the lock file with updated checksums.

.TP
.B styx env [variables...]
Show loaded environment variables and tool paths from styx.toml and styx.lock. Use --export-format to change output format (human, shell, json).

.TP
.B styx list [--verify]
List all installed tools with their versions and paths. Shows tools from styx.lock if available, otherwise scans ~/.styx/bin.

.TP
.B styx info [tool]
Show tool metadata from the registry. Displays available versions, stability markers, and supported platforms. Shows all tools if no tool name specified.

.TP
.B styx init [shell]
Initialize shell integration. Generates hooks for bash, zsh, or fish that automatically detect .styx/styx.toml in current or parent directories and load the environment.

.TP
.B styx completion [shell]
Generate shell completion script for bash, zsh, or fish. Source the output in your shell config to enable tab-completion for styx commands and flags.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h, --help
Show help for styx or a command.

.TP
.B \-v, --version
Show styx version.

.SH CONFIGURATION
Configuration is stored in TOML format. Global config location:
.B ~/.local/share/styx/styx.toml

Project-local config location:
.B .styx/styx.toml

Example config:
.RS
.nf
[tools]
golang = "1.22.0"
node = "20.0.0"
postgres = "15.3"

[env]
RUST_BACKTRACE = "1"
DATABASE_URL = "postgres://localhost"
.fi
.RE

.SH LOCK FILE
Lock files are stored as JSON in the project root:
.B styx.lock

Lock files record exact tool versions, checksums, and URLs for reproducible installations. Commit styx.lock to version control to ensure all team members use identical environments.

.SH ENVIRONMENT LOADING
Tool paths are added to environment variables:
.B TOOLNAME_PATH=/home/user/.styx/bin/toolname

Environment variables from config are also loaded.

For automatic environment loading on every cd, use:
.RS
.B styx init bash
.RE

Then add the output to your ~/.bashrc (or ~/.zshrc for zsh, ~/.config/fish/conf.d/styx.fish for fish).

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Install all tools from config:
.B styx install

.TP
Generate lock file:
.B styx lock

.TP
Reproducible install on CI:
.B styx sync

.TP
Update golang version:
.B styx update golang@1.24.0

.TP
Setup bash auto-loading:
.B styx init bash >> ~/.bashrc

.TP
Show available tools:
.B styx list

.TP
Get golang metadata:
.B styx info golang

.SH FILES
.TP
.B ~/.local/share/styx/styx.toml
Global configuration file.

.TP
.B .styx/styx.toml
Project-local configuration file (overrides global).

.TP
.B styx.lock
Project lock file (JSON format). Commit to version control.

.TP
.B ~/.styx/store/
Content-addressable storage for tool binaries.

.TP
.B ~/.styx/bin/
Symlinks to installed tools in storage.

.SH SEE ALSO
.B styx-init(1)
.B styx-env(1)
.B styx-install(1)

.SH AUTHOR
Modo Ventures

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs at https://github.com/killallservers/styx/issues

.SH WEBSITE
https://github.com/killallservers/styx
