.TH STYX-INIT 1 "July 2026" "styx 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
styx-init \- initialize shell integration for automatic environment loading

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B styx init
[\fISHELL\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Initialize Styx shell integration for automatic environment loading.

When you cd into a project with .styx/styx.toml, Styx automatically loads the configured environment (tools, paths, variables).

Generates shell hook code that:
.RS
.B Runs on each prompt (PROMPT_COMMAND in bash, precmd in zsh, PWD change in fish)
.B Walks up the directory tree looking for .styx/styx.toml
.B Loads environment variables if found
.B Gracefully handles missing styx binary (silent no-op)
.RE

.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.B bash
Generate setup code for bash. Add to ~/.bashrc.

.TP
.B zsh
Generate setup code for zsh. Add to ~/.zshrc.

.TP
.B fish
Generate setup code for fish. Copy to ~/.config/fish/conf.d/styx.fish.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Setup bash integration:
.B styx init bash >> ~/.bashrc
.B source ~/.bashrc

.TP
Setup zsh integration:
.B styx init zsh >> ~/.zshrc
.B exec zsh

.TP
Setup fish integration:
.B mkdir -p ~/.config/fish/conf.d
.B styx init fish > ~/.config/fish/conf.d/styx.fish

.TP
View the hook code before installing:
.B styx init bash

.SH BEHAVIOR
Once installed, the shell hook:
.RS
1. Detects when you cd into a directory
2. Walks up from current directory to root, looking for .styx/styx.toml
3. If found, loads environment variables and tool paths
4. If not found or styx binary missing, silently continues (no error)
.RE

Example directory structure:
.RS
.nf
~/portfolio/                    # Has .styx/styx.toml
  api/                          # No config, inherits parent
    $ cd api      # Env: golang=1.22, node=20
  web/                          # Has .styx/styx.toml with node=21
    $ cd web      # Env: golang=1.22, node=21 (overridden)
.fi
.RE

.SH CUSTOMIZATION
The hook code is printed to stdout. Users can:
.RS
.B Copy the code to their shell config manually (recommended)
.B Modify the hook before installing (for custom logic)
.B Disable by commenting out the hook in shell config
.RE

No hidden modifications to shell configuration files.

.SH SEE ALSO
.B styx(1)
.B styx-env(1)
